# LAB 2 MILES SOFTWARE DECODE

## Assignment Description
#### TLDR 
A training weapon fires a laser signal of very specific pulses representing a word (different weapons have different words associated). When a receiver gets this signal, it reacts as being hit by the weapon. The receiver is always listening for pulses and is prone to accepting false positives due to cosmic radiation from the sun. Write software that detects when a receiver is hit and ignore false positives. Provide a custom Queue implementation through Composition with an existing data structure in order to read in the data from the receiver and write out the words received.

Arguments required(in order): knownPattern.txt incomingVals.txt

#### 1. Overview
In this substantial project, students shall expand the decoding concept introduced in the first assignment 1. In a new project, each student will build an application which reads in data from two files. The application scans and detects the Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System (MILES) weapon codes contained in one input file. A second input file defines the actual bit pattern sequences for each of the known codes the system recognizes. Note that rather than simply detecting the presence of a 1-1-0, this solution shall consult a table of possible value arrangements and detect if the full message matches a known MILES word. Moreover, it does so for the entire input file extracting all words contained therein and writing the results to a properly-formatted output file.
Over the course of this assignment, students shall:
  * Extract token-delineated data from a well-formed Comma Separated Value (CSV) file.
  * Write output to a custom-created CSV file.
  * Design a program that interacts with the file system.
  * Implement an algorithm for a real-world problem using data structures.
  * Create an implementation of the Queue Abstract Data Type (ADT).
#### 2. Requirements
Students shall construct a working application that reads in data from two different CSV files. The first CSV file establishes a list of known patterns and their associated weapon codes the decoder uses when detecting MILES codes. This file defines each timing sequence the decoder understands. It does so by specifying the distance, in timer increments, from the first value in the sequence to each subsequent value.
  * Although related to the first assignment, there exist enough differences students should not plan on reusing any substantial code developed there.
  
A MILES word consists of six pulses, so every one must have at least six values. In this assignment, the pulses within a single MILES word must fall within a 0-200 pulse window, so the values contained in the pattern identification file all fall within this range.
The second CSV file contains a stream of unsigned values ranging from 0 through 65,535 inclusive. The values contained in this file represent the system time when it detected an optical pulse. Using these data, the program shall iterate through the input values and identify if any known patterns appear in the data. It shall do so by examining the pulse timer values and detecting if the deltas between any of the values in the sequence match those of a known MILES pattern. As the program detects valid MILES words in the input sequence, it shall append the corresponding code to a new CSV output file. The values in the output file shall appear in the order the decoder detects them in the input sequence. The CSV output file shall not contain any extra commas, nor shall it possess a header. In addition to building the application, students must provide a custom Queue implementation through Composition with an existing data structure. Students shall use this Queue as both an input parameter to the decoder as well as its return value. That is, the decoder shall accept a Queue of values to process 2 and return a Queue of the codes it found. The application shall then use the returned Queue to produce the output file.
#### 2-1. Design
The application uses a software decoder to process the input files, so the first obvious logic separation appears there, for we may wish to use the decoder again independent of this particular application. Thus, students will create a driver application program file responsible for reading in data from the file system and writing the output to another file. The application itself shall not perform any decoding, however, for it simply manages the specifics of this problem (i.e., reading in and writing to text files). Students shall create a separate software decoder class or function. This module shall possess all the public methods and functions one needs to perform the software decoding task independent of anything to do with the file system, so it should not read or write data to a file. Instead, the software decoder developed for this assignment shall accept a Queue of values to process and a Map or some form of List of timing values to associate with codes. The decoder function will then return a List of weapon codes. Thus, the application manages loading the data from the file system into the relevant data structures for the decoder to use, and it then processes the returned List from the decoder algorithm by writing each of the values it contains to a new output file.
#### 2-2. Allowed Imports
This assignment requires students create a data structure which implements the Queue interface using an existing List in the standard library or Java Collections Framework. Many solutions exist for the software decoding algorithm, and these solutions necessitate a variety of data structures. Consequently, students may use any List or Map (e.g. TreeMap and HashMap) the design requires. Additionally, Math functions lend assistance as well as any of the standard classes used for reading from and writing to files and parsing the data therein. Students may not, however, use any library specific to writing or reading CSV files. Students must process these files manually and extract the tokens contained therein individually.
